Has someone taken advantage of you or wronged you in
some way? Do you get a bubbling feeling in your
gut or heat rising in your face? Anger is one
of the natural responses to hurt, and depending on how
you deal with your emotions, these negative emotions can stay
with you for a long time. Prolonged anger can actually
be dangerous since it doesn't only affect your mental health,
but can also cause physical symptoms like backaches, migraines, and
fatigue. When you're extremely furious at someone who's done you
wrong, do you secretly wish bad things upon them and
hope that they suffer more than you did? You may
even think about revenge. However, when we have thoughts like
this, it always backfires. Instead of making the person who
made us angry suffer, we're actually tormenting ourselves with these
negative thoughts. As the saying goes, holding on to anger
is like drinking poison and expecting others to die. This
is why it's so important to understand our emotions, like
anger, where it comes from, the trigger behind it, and
how to cope with it in a healthy manner instead
of repressing it or acting upon it impulsively. So why
do we get angry? Anger is actually linked to fear.
For instance, you may be angry at someone who had
violated your trust or has taken advantage of you. Anger
is the reaction and the fear of getting hurt. It's
important to have emotions like fear and anger because they
let you know when someone has crossed your boundaries or
has hurt you emotionally. It's a signal to help you
prevent the situation from happening again in the future. However,
when you suppress or deal with it in an unhealthy
way, these negative feelings can grow more intense. This is
also known as repressed anger. So where does repressed anger
come from? Why is it so hard to listen to
your emotions, such as anger, and acknowledge it? Do you
subconsciously keep telling yourself that you shouldn't feel this way?
Well, repressed anger and poor anger management may be learned
in childhood. Your parents have a large impact on you
as a child, especially in shaping your values, beliefs, and
behaviors. This is especially true in how you learn to
deal with your emotions. As a child, you may have
expressed your anger through tantrums, which your parents may have
dealt with by punishing you. From this, you are taught
to associate your negative emotions, such as anger, with being
bad and unlovable. Therefore, it conditioned you to ignore
or to unhealthily express any bad emotions that you felt.
Beliefs such as anger is a bad emotion or nobody
likes angry people may continue on to adulthood. This causes
you to have unhealthy habits where you don't express your
emotions in a healthy manner. As a human being, it's
natural for you to desire to be loved and accepted.
When you end up developing beliefs that associate being angry
with being bad, unlovable, and undesirable, it's not a surprise
that you'll start to suppress, avoid, or invalidate these negative
emotions. But the truth is, your feelings and emotions are
trying to tell you something. Feeling anger is a way
for your subconscious to protect yourself from pain and hurt.
It's your body's way of telling you how you're really
feeling about a certain situation. It's a reflection of your
mental state of health, and this is why losing touch
with your emotions can be harmful. If you're out of
touch with these emotions, you might have a hard time
identifying whether someone has crossed your boundaries. This might also
be one of the reasons why you always find yourself
dealing with people who love taking advantage of you longer
than you should. Did you find this video
insightful? How do you express your emotions? Tell us about
it in the comments below. If you enjoyed this video,
please like and share it with others who may find
it helpful too. Don't forget to subscribe for more content.
All the references used are also added in the description
box below. Thanks for watching, and we'll see you in
the next video.